what is effective activism and what is
the most effective activism for you
personally I've raised this question
again and again on my channel and I
tried to start a discussion about the
nature of animal sanctuaries
specifically when I had a conversation
with a guy named Jay costly she can
still hear most of that podcast is on
this channel as a series of videos Jay
has a background working in zoos so you
had a very interesting perspective on
semi domesticated animals wild animals
being raised in captivity the ethics of
house is operated cetera et cetera and I
think there were a lot of interesting
ethical questions about what is the
difference between animal sanctuary in a
petting zoo but in a broader deeper
level we all have to ask ourselves
individuals what is the best use of our
time and money if we're trying to make
the world a better place if we are
fundamentally concerned about ethics
ecology animal rights the promotion of
veganism in 21st century uh and I really
sincerely think that different people
are going to come to different
conclusions depending partly on the
advantages and disadvantages they have
in life full disclosure I did spend a
very memorable part of my childhood on a
farm and seeing the conditions on other
farms not just the farm I was living on
and I spent a brief but very memorable
part of my adult life also on farms I
have seen farm conditions in Laos and
Cambodia I have not yet visited a farm
here in mainland China that could be
coming up that could be kind of the
future um for some people the greatest
way they could make a difference in the
world may well be working in this kind
of farm conditions if you grew up if
you're actually a vet if you have a
diploma and veterinary medicine if you
grew up shoveling manure baling hay
putting out bags of oats or farm animals
you might have a skill set in the
background that really prepares you to
work at an animal sanctuary you may
really feel that writing an animal
sanctuaries the best way you can make a
positive difference in the world for
someone else for different type of
person I think they should probably
really seriously consider the explicitly
political methods
discuss in this channel such as lobbying
local government or carrying out
advertising campaigns or public
education campaigns and for other people
I think the answer might really be in
the creative arts it's with no irony
that I say for some people the best way
they can make a difference in the world
and promote veganism ecology etc maybe
through painting a picture maybe through
performance maybe through playing music
if you're a musician you may have ways
of making a positive difference in the
world that i do not have i am in my late
30s i'm not going to learn how to play
guitar now on the other hand i am
learning how to read write and speak the
chinese language now and speaking
Chinese may really change the options i
have in terms of effective activism
lobbying etc etc ah i'm going to provide
links below this video to two different
websites that give you a sketch of costs
for keeping pigs and keeping horses it's
not cheap in the United States the
average annual cost of horse ownership
is 3876 dollars per horse per year some
of those costs are predictable the cost
of having regular visits from a vet for
deworming veterinary science can get
much more expensive if a disease breaks
out amongst your horses if you have many
horses the same disease can go from
horse to horse the same disease can go
from horse to people also horses like
cows can carry communicable diseases
that the humans living around them get
also which can be quite nasty so the
vets fees alone average 485 dollars per
year yes and of course vaccinations it's
somewhat hilarious to me that actually
many many vegans do not believe in
vaccinations for human beings their
auntie vax but they they believe in
vaccinations for animals because
normally with animals you can see just
how quickly they drop dead if you don't
give them those vaccinations um costs
for keeping pigs I have a very detailed
breakdown here although it is aimed at
the pot-bellied pig
belly pig is not a normal breed that's
raised for meat so if there were rescued
pigs from from you know the meat
industry that you'd have a different
species of pig but still I think these
costs are indicative spaying and
neutering 250 to 500 dollars with the
initial shots so again vaccinations feed
for a young pig it puts at five hundred
dollars per year when the Pig gets older
it becomes nine hundred dollars per year
fencing costs veterinary care this
estimates for one pick this is per pig
remember 150 to 300 dollars per year and
then when they get older three hundred
to five hundred dollars per year
surgical and extra medical care it
simply notes you may be shocked one day
to see a bill for 4,500 dollars um
average annual cost for other enrichment
items nine hundred dollars you can go
through this list in detail now I do
think the author of this website is
really trying to warn people I I think
he's trying to warn people with the high
end costs and um he's trying to prevent
people who wouldn't really be prepared
to take on this level responsible in
this level of cost not to adopt pigs
casually and think that they can they
can take care of them without without
really planning ahead and without really
saving up money and being financially
prepared for the worst there is also
some really interesting comments below
this table of values one question so
he's answering frequently asked
questions question what will I do with
my pig if I have to move get a divorce
or for some other reason cannot keep him
the answer he gives our chances are the
pig will have to be put down killed or
placed in a risky situation where he
will not be safe period the sanctuaries
are all full period when people get pigs
for pets they seldom see a list like
this or get a chance to understand what
they are getting into so many get them
without full information and then cannot
keep them later and the places for them
to go are few and usually full
if you go to our placements page you can
read about the risks in our part of the
country when trying to place a pig in a
good home be very careful placement
groups as they have one purpose to
collect fees and how safe the pig is
maybe of secondary concern now again
full disclosure I have never spoken with
someone who currently owned and operated
and annuals an animal sanctuary vegan
animal sanctuary but I did speak with a
married couple and they had considered
owning and operating an animal sanctuary
and they spoke to other people running
them and they after they gathered the
information that they decided against it
that I said that was not the path you
take so I got their perspective and this
sort of thing was part of it they found
it quite depressing that you know
because the they're just not in a
position to casually say to people
people have a horse to get rid of or pay
to get rid of they cannot casually
except one more horse or one more Pig
it's not just about how much empty land
you've got it really is about the cost
including enormous costs for regular
veterinary care that all these animals
require the next question here on this
less Jethro's worth reading question I
want to have my pig be an only pig stay
inside and be very bonded to me how do I
make that happen in ? is that the other
questions the answer if you think this
through you will soon realize this is
not what you really want it all for the
pig it means a lifetime of separation
from his kind the only creatures on the
planet who speak his language and feel
his feelings for you it means a
demanding and whiny companion who will
destroy the house bite everyone that
comes near him and eventually even back
you down as he establishes his role as
Boss Hogg he will be unhappy and
frustrated in his life and you will pay
dearly for it approximately ninety-six
percent of pigs who become homeless are
from single Pig households what starts
with a tiny cute and agreeable piglet
ends tragically with a 180 pound pig
with long hubs and tusks that no one can
trim until he is crippled and dies or he
attacks the wrong person and is killed
pigs frequently attacked toddlers and
older family members
why blame the pig ? he is simply angry
at being held captive in the prison you
created think about what your wants mean
for the pig it is all bad news so this
is fascinating because this website is
fundamentally supportive of the idea of
keeping pigs as pets specifically
pot-bellied pigs but this man is really
aware that you know the I was going to
say the dehumanizing effect but humans
here the that it is in some sense
extremely denigrating for a pig to be
deprived of the company of its own
species for a pig to to live in such
extremely unnatural conditions just for
the entertainment of human beings unlike
pigs living in a pack of other pigs
being able to socialize with other pigs
to some extent etc etc so I mean all of
this raises the question of to what
extent would an animal sanctuary treat
pigs like household pets or treat horses
like household pets um these animals can
live for many many years especially if
you are getting the multiple visits from
vet vets every year you know all of
these injections and shots and
treatments again and again and then when
they get into old age she talks about
the pig is becoming a fourth riddick
developing arthritis and needing special
food and special medical care as they as
the garden life so you can extend their
lives much much longer than they would
survive in the wild and I think that
most vegans if they donate to an animal
sanctuary that is what they are assuming
and I think most of these people also
are assuming a very small plot of land
where pigs and horses live in small pens
which really resembles a farm or a
petting zoo and not wild conditions at
all now you can tell me if you are more
or less horrified by this what if you
had a very large plot of land only
fenced on three sides that backs onto a
forest onto a dense forest and there are
wolves in that forest and there are
bears in that forest and there were
let's say there are vultures let's throw
in some vultures some carrion feeding
birds like Falcons and vultures or what
have you okay and you say you know what
if people donate their horses to live
here
we have enough space for the horses to
run around and we don't castrate the
horses we don't spare new to the horses
and we don't give them any shots we
don't give them any veg veterinary care
they get to run around they don't get
dewormed they don't get their hooves
trimmed and you know what sooner or
later that gets sick or they die and the
wolves come and tear them to pieces and
all that's left is a pile of bones that
would be a very different model of a
sanctuary in substance that might not be
a sanctuary at all you might be
horrified but I think those horses would
have for a few years an experience of a
life that is really pretty natural the
horses now I could say the same boat
pigs and repeat the same thing what if
instead of having human beings come and
tie the pig down and repeatedly cut the
tusks so the tusks can't grow naturally
cut the hooves repeatedly treat these
pigs and what again instead of
castrating the pigs your very
fundamental difference in the pigs
behavior in nature or what have you what
if you're letting these pigs actually
revert to living like wild boars and
you're not providing them with this kind
of intensive veterinary care supervision
etc and you're also not regulating their
sex lives I mean I'd have you been on a
farm but when two horses decide to mate
everybody on the farm knows about it
when to minks decide to mate on a big
farm everybody knows about it um human
beings who run farms or run petting zoos
are very much involved in the disgusting
details of how the animals make love poo
reproduce those are all decisions the
human Pink's are involved in which as a
vegan I'm not comfortable with I think
you know you say you're liberating these
animals but actually they're just going
on to a very different kind of
oppression where human beings are
controlling every aspect of their lives
they're being fed by human hands and the
animals are going to try to reproduce
with each other and then what are the
human beings going to prevent that are
they going to prevent it chemically or
through castration or you know no matter
which way you look at it whether it's
horses or pigs or wild dogs
um it's gross and the gross Ness is
worth reflecting on because one of the
reasons why many of us became vegan in
the first place was we took a look at
the meat and dairy industry and said
this is gross but it's interesting to me
on the one hand you have the enormous
cost of pretending that these animals
are household pets and treating them
like household pets or on the other hand
you have the barbarity of letting them
live a little bit closer to the wild for
a much shorter period of time and to
live a life that will inevitably end
with their either dying a violent death
at the teeth of some predator such as
wolves or bears or their first getting
sick and collapsing and then being torn
apart by carrion feeders whatever if you
got vultures at where you are vultures
coming and pick the bones apart I was
looking forward to having an in-depth
discussion with another person on
YouTube who these issues another person
who is raising money for an animal
sanctuary and that other person has
requested that I not use his name on my
channel which is very interesting
because he has like more than 30 videos
that use my name maybe more than 50
videos by now he has many many videos
that might have but okay he asked me not
to use his name is videos his current
target is a very very modest six hundred
US dollars per month how many horses can
you keep how many pigs can you keep for
six hundred US dollars a month how many
can you keep really for six thousand a
month you got to think about labor costs
how many people are you employing on
this farm yes one or two people may work
for free it's a husband-and-wife team
who want to have their hartnett if you
can't be there twenty-four/seven you
need at least one other employee who's
getting paid to do that job costs mount
very very quickly even for a very very
small number of animals and once you
know that limit once you know exactly
how many horses and how many pigs you
can accept then you can't accept any
more until one of them dies and you are
going to have to make the hard decisions
about when they live in when they
die like oh we have a 4500 dollar
medical bill coming up for this pig
either we spend that money so this pig
can live or we let this pig died and a
new pig replaces it because the number
of animals who can be rescued or
liberated on one of these sanctuaries is
almost infinite there's such an enormous
number of animals even from abandoned
pets like this particular type of pig
let alone from animals you know if
animals that are shall we say byproducts
are jettisoned by the meat and dairy
industry now it's the costs are big it's
a lot of money and the outcomes in some
ways are certain in some ways very
uncertain if the question is about how
can you make the world a better place
I'll compare this to a project that
right now I'm thinking about doing
fundraising for I have written a
children's book I wrote it originally in
Chinese and then I translated the
Chinese and English so have the script
and I've been talking to illustrators
now some illustrators or amateurs who
are vegans who are willing to do this
for free they've offered to illustrate
the book for free I don't know if that
will work out but I'm in discussions
with those artists and one artist who is
a vegan but is a real professional who's
done many children's books before she
gave me a cost estimate / illustration
she said $500 500 US dollars for each
illustration for this Jones book I'm
sorry I don't even mention this
children's book is highly effective
vegan propaganda let me show you you
know it's a story it could have
beautiful pictures the pictures are
still negotiation but this is
communicating the moral and the message
of the story has everything to do with
veganism has everything to do with the
surreal nature of the meat and dairy
industry that's all around us that's
invisible and unthought-of and that you
know without being gross introduces
children and their parents to this
fundamental consideration with the
ethics of where our food comes from and
the lives the animals are living at all
times unseen in a world where there are
only concrete floors and steel shed
roofs over their heads and where that's
the only world they know from the day
they were born to the day that
the professional artist the the real pro
to the bunch she gave me a cost estimate
of 500 US dollars up front for each old
station and that is a very low price for
someone like her she is a vegan and I
believe she was giving me that low price
you know because she she supports the
cause it's her charitable price 20
illustrations not hard to do the math
it's a lot of money it's real money tell
you about many thousands of dollars but
you're talking about a one-time cost if
I could raise the thousands of dollars
pay the artists publish the book that
book have positive outcomes in the real
world for decades some children's books
stay around for 30 years which curious
george is still selling and of course if
you want to you can put it on the
internet for free as a PDF if you want
to you can put it through publishing
websites and you can also publish it on
paper in this case the book is in both
chinese and english so potentially it
could be reaching people in Hong Kong
and Taiwan and Canada and England it
could have all kinds of positive effects
for myself personally for my daughter
I'm divorced but I have a young daughter
it could have positive x in my life and
it could be something where throughout
your life is an activist you can point
back to getting it as a little pause
difference me in the world and for
families vegan families raising kids it
could be something really positive when
I compare the commitment of time and
money and considering the type of
outcome you get with that project to the
commitment of time and money to just
keep five horses alive I think the book
wins and it wins for me given who I am I
do have some experience with farming
it's not worth describing here I do have
some experience with shoveling animal
manure with the flies with the
mosquitoes with bales of hay with bags
of animal feed don't kid yourself it
smells bad it's sweaty hard work and the
a coastal thank you for it they don't
they're not don't make them happy by
shoveling their poo you really don't
with her whether it's a petting zoo
or or a real zoo or a no or a farm or a
sanctuary a lot of that work it's it's
fundamentally the same despite that the
ethical intent you have to take care of
the animals and you know the animals get
sick and there has to be quarantined
they're all these complications and
animals break their legs and then there
are you questions you're going to shoot
them to the head are you going to try
some very time-consuming expensive
method of saving them once they've got a
leg broken then animal like a horse a
horse of the broken leg very tough to
deal with very heroin all these gross
terrible things given my background give
it who i am i can tell you i am not the
guy to run an animal sanctuary and even
if i were just the donor if i were
giving money between those two projects
i think it's a very tough calls forth
the animal sanctuary uh and now beyond
that we can talk about the efficacy of
real politics wherever you are in the
world people are watching this in all
different countries in all their in
political systems ask yourself does your
government like money how about a twenty
five percent tax on leather shoes if you
want to sweeten the deal you could
reduce the taxes on non leather shoes by
ten percent government is still making
more money right if there's one thing
politicians like to do its give
themselves a raise it would send a
profound signal through the whole social
system that leather is obsolete if we
had a twenty-five percent tax on leather
shoes and a 10-percent discount unknown
leather shoes there was a time certainly
a couple hundred years ago when there
was no substitute for leather when many
many objects are made of leather and
there was no other real material
available those days are over the days
when we relied on horses to fight our
wars are over the days when heroin was
an acceptable medicine are over you know
many many things have changed and
governments have to make policy
decisions that reflect those those
changes in priority those changes in
values those changes sometimes
ultimately in scientific knowledge there
was a time when governments encouraged
people to smoke cigarettes and use
tobacco and those days are over and
that's reflected in punitive taxation
policies
make governments a lot of money having
high taxes on cigarettes I do not think
in most countries like in a country like
Canada I do not think that twenty five
percent tax on leather shoes is an
unattainable goal I think it's an
attainable goal I think that's the kind
of change that has both pragmatism and
you know an ethical stand behind it and
that many politicians would be willing
to listen to if you want to pass a law
that makes all cancer research
impossible by making all vivisection
illegal I don't think any politicians
are going to take you seriously right
the stakes are high they're the
consequences are real and you're talking
about restricting academic freedom
eliminating a whole area of high tech
research they're all these knock-on
effects and many many vegans
passionately want to make all
vivisection illegal I understand that I
understand your passion but now i'm
talking about pragmatism not passion
think about the time you might think
about if if if you have one animal
sanctuary that takes care of a handful
of horses and handful of pigs at a cost
of fifteen thousand dollars a year
really i think that's a very low cost
compared to one person's salary the
whole operation land pets i actually
don't think that's very fifty thousand
US dollars a year or let's say you have
fifteen thousand dollars a year in cash
going into a campaign including lobbying
public education advertising a
full-blown political campaign to try to
achieve special taxation on leather
shoes because leather shoes are obsolete
they're immoral they're bad for the
environment that kill animals the
leather industry at every stage polluted
pollutes water etc and said which one do
you think is more effective and which
one actually could achieve a real
outcome or a real goal one of my
problems with spending fifteen thousand
dollars a year on the animal sanctuary
is that all you're doing is perpetuating
a situation in which animals live in a
domesticated state of having their will
broken of having no real independence no
experience of the wilderness or living
in a pack with their own kind and which
ultimately they're trapped inside wooden
walls or inside wooden fence
is or inside metal cages waiting to die